there are nine things that brilliant
sales people do differently and in this
video I'm going to share the stuff that
I've learned building multiple nine fig
sales teams scaling teams from Z to 40
guys 0 to 60 guys and personally closing
over 4,000 sales myself and so if you
boil it down a salesperson has three
jobs to do they have to maximize the
number of opportunities they have they
have to convert the highest percentage
of those opportunities and and this is
the important part they have to do it
consistently for a very long period of
time and so the nine things they do
differently will fall elegantly into
each of these three buckets let's start
with the first one which is Max
maximizing leads or maximizing the
number of opportunities that a salesman
has so right off the top I've never seen
a salesperson who does the most in a
company have the lowest amount of hours
worked I've yet to have it you know what
maybe there's a special snowflake out
there but every company that I've owned
and every company that I've looked at
the guy who works the most hours is the
one who sells the most deals and so
maximizing opportunities comes in a
number of different forms so number one
is that they have the total most hours
available per day because you should be
available when the prospect is available
and that means sometimes working long
hours it sometimes mean working weekends
and yes businesses also pay rent on
Sundays and so you can make sales on
Sundays so my software company Allen
scheduled 4,000 plus appointments per
day across a number of different
Industries and so we got to see all the
way from click to close which companies
were selling the most people and we
looked at all the different data so
times of day number of days per week you
know speed between text responses number
of characters and text respon response
all of these different variables cuz I
had two data analysts that looked at
this to figure out how could he maximize
throughput for any business and
obviously sales a big component of that
and the single greatest lever on
throughput across all companies was the
number of total available time slots
which means availability was the
strongest predictor of total sales and
let me give you a tactical example of
this when Leila and I were traveling the
other day we went to a different city
and she wanted to get her nails done or
something and so she just pulled up Yelp
and looked at the one that had the top
reviews called them up and they said oh
I'm sorry we don't do same day
appointments and they're like we can
book you in for two days from now and
she was like yep don't care called the
next one same thing called the third one
and then they were like yeah we can take
you right now and boom she went in and
the thing is is that both those other
business owners the first two business
owners that said no lost money and the
next time she comes to that place she'll
probably go back to the one that she
went to as long as they did a good job
and so trying to be egotistical about it
rather than accommodate customers it's
like well so
great you just lose money now if we
maximize the total number of time that's
available for the salesperson to sell
then the next part of maximizing their
opportunities is getting as much of
their day humanly possible filled with
the best opportunities and so the second
subunit of this
is they will pull up calls and so the
first thing is if you see a call that
gets booked or you book a call that's on
Thursday and today's Monday if you have
a time slot that's open you grab your
Thursday appointment you drag it into
today because today appointments always
have higher show up rates and if you
pull it up then they're even more
interested and you can close even higher
and you could have two or three calls by
that same Thursday time so you increase
your sales velocity now a corat to that
is if you look at your calendar and
you've reached out to a prospect and
that person has not responded back and
now it's the same day and they're coming
up in a few hours well what do you do
well the best salespeople pull that time
slot and say hey sorry I didn't see that
you confirmed why don't we do the same
thing for tomorrow you can push it out
one and then try and fill that time slot
with somebody who is responsive even if
they're later in the week and that
increases your total number of calls per
day and so fundamentally the perfect day
for a salesperson is that they have call
back to back to back to back to back
with the best possible leads that are
the hottest that day I learned that
little tactic about pulling up because
we had one of our companies uh was in
solar sales and they had one rep that
massively outperformed everyone else and
I was like what is this guy doing and so
what he was doing was he would whenever
a new appointment would book he would
immediately call the the appointment to
qualify the lead CU that checks two
boxes one is he says okay is this person
qualified to buy if the person was he
had two decision paths if they had the
time right then he would just go
straight into closing because he was in
offthe callop and then by getting in
contact with the lead became on the call
in terms of his sop and if they said
they had time right now he just went for
the sale that maximizes his time on call
if they said no then the reason for his
call was that he had an opening lader
that day that he was trying to fill up
and so he either takes the moment now
that he's working the lead and turns it
into a sales call or he fills another
slot later in the day and turns that
into a sales call both of those things
maximize the number of sales that guy
was having and this guy was selling like
four times more units than the second
best guy on the team and then they
obviously saw this and then adopted it
companywide and then of course I saw it
and adopted it across all my entire
portfolio and let me double down to why
that's so powerful because not only does
the salesman have two opportunities to
sell now or later that day he also opens
up the slot later in the week for
availability for another customer that
can't make it to day to book that time
then because what I have found and we
saw this with the software was if you
have fewer time slots people may still
book with you but they're not booking at
the most convenient time for them you'll
see schedule rates but then show rates
will drop because it's not the time that
works for them ideally and so you want
to make it the most accommodating so
it's not just are is it convenient or
inconvenient it's how convenient is it
if I have a a tight deadline and a hard
stop and I've got something that I'm
stressed about afterwards I might be
able to schedule a call then but I might
not be in a in the mood to buy but if I
say you know what Sunday afternoon I'm
free I'll have all the time in my world
I'm going to have zero urgency to get
off the call I'll listen to you and I'll
be a completely different Zone and that
might be when I'm in receiving hands in
terms of prospect brain mode for
buying and so one of the things that the
best sales people have and this is
something that companies should provide
but often don't is that you have two
Sops meaning standard operating
procedures you have an onthe call sop
which is what you say when you're
talking to prospects and you have an
offthe call sop which is what you do in
between the vast majority of companies
don't have an off-the call sop and
they're losing tons and tons of money
because they just say yeah just work the
leads in the meantime when the total
amount of output that a salesman has is
so correlated with the amount of
opportunities they have and they get
those opportunities by the time they
have when they're not on the call and so
they should have two separate checklists
if they don't have them in front of them
and this is what the best sales people
do is this is what I'm doing when I'm on
and this is what I'm doing when I'm off
and you can just switch hats as soon as
you're off you start at the top and
you're like I'm following with this
person I'm following with this person
I'm dragging this person forward I'm
canceling this appointment and they have
high
Activity one of the things that we do
across all our companies and I learned
This Acronym from my friend Chiron
bamfam which is book a meeting from a
meeting which is that the best
salespeople never finish a call with a
prospect not knowing when the next time
they're going to talk to the prospect so
that Prospect should never fall into no
man's L they should never fall between
the cracks where they're like I don't
know and so if you get to the end of the
call and they're like yeah let's uh
connect offline and we'll you know we'll
Circle back up and we'll find another
time no you have to address it at that
time because if for whatever reason like
a Time obstacle is still an obstacle and
you can resolve it right then you both
have your calendars up you can both make
the decision if someone's like well I'm
not sure then you actually address the
concern like isn't this a problem for
you how much you losing every day not
implementing this solution in your
business how much like how much of a
problem is this in your life and why
isn't it this something that we'd be
doing sooner right and so you want to
address those things because that is
these are obstacles and so if you just
get off the call Jolly
then you actually lose more sales so you
always book a meeting from the meeting
here's three more things that the best
sales people will do number one is that
they don't take rejection personally
because they're going to reach out in
more volume than the mediocre
salespeople and so you can see on a CRM
how many Outreach attempts and how many
follow-up attempts that A salesperson is
having between calls and it correlates
with the number of calls that they take
and so they work their leads harder and
that's because if someone before they've
scheduled a call you know says something
mean they're not like oh my gosh I can't
believe this or if someone no shows
they're not like well I'm not going to
work the rest of my leads no one really
cares about me like wo is me is no they
know it's a numbers game and they just
keep plowing something that I've noticed
the best salespeople do is they have
something called a kill list and so
those are those prospects that you're
like this is a whale or this is a really
good Prospect and they they sure they
have in the CRM sure they have them in
the place that they're supposed to have
them but they also have it somewhere
else that's visible so they can always
think about it and like that's like an
everyday list it's like I got to get
back to these two guys I got to make
sure that these ones I'm going to put
extra attention to because they're high
value deals now the last element of what
the best sales people do for increasing
their number of leads is that they
create their own opportunities so sure
they're going to get the inbound leads
from marketing they're going to get the
people you know the leads that are
handed to them but the best salespeople
know the value of referrals and so the
way they do that is at the end of the
call or at the time that it makes sense
they say hey do you know anybody else or
my favorite way of asking is who do you
know because it forces the prospect to
answer the question with a not yes no
but with a name you say who do you know
who is as awesome as you now it's a
compliment who would also benefit from
this so now I'm giving them a compliment
by by by asking them for the referral so
I kind of like have a like a nice guy
sandwich there so like you're amazing
who else do you know who's like you who
would love to do this with you or with
us who could benefit from XYZ right now
sometimes if they say no one then
sometimes like this is where Rapport is
important but but you could say
something like why do you hate me so
much and they're like what do you mean
it's like well I only can assume that
you hate us because you don't want
anybody else to know about this amazing
thing and you probably hate your friends
because you want them to suffer as well
right and if it's because you don't
believe me then let's talk about that
but otherwise like why are we not
getting your friends in here because I
can promise you you'll be far more
successful if you have more people you
know who are in it so in the spirit of
bamfam book a meeting from a meeting if
we consider this to be a meeting if you
would like us to help you more with your
sales process acquisition. comom just
started a workshop division where my
sales director my team will talk to you
specifically about your sales your
process your scripting so we can
Implement some of the things that we
know work in our portfolio into your
business ASAP we do other stuff at the
workshop but we also talk about sales if
that's at all interesting you can book
your next meeting by going ais.com
clicking the scale button and following
the steps and if you're qualified my
guys will reach
out when I had a team in a different
portfolio company we had one guy who was
outperforming everyone else by a huge
margin this one wasn't as big as the
pullup thing that was massive this was
about 50% higher than the number number
two guy and we were like what is this
guy doing he was brand new and that was
what was interesting is like brand new
going to the top leader board it's not
very common because that means that
they're doing a different process right
and so he was following the script and
we listened to the calls we like this is
the same call and so when we called him
up we said what are you doing
differently and the thing is he was
multiplying his leads and so what he did
was at the end of the calls he was just
asking who they knew who would also
benefit from this thing and I think they
were they were selling um some sort of
uh tickets of some sort and so he was
saying who else wants to come with you
who else would you like to bring and
it's just a simple little thing that he
was doing but by doing that he was
increasing his sales by 50% because the
referrals even though only one out of
three or one out of four people would
refer the referral close rates like 80
or 90% And so if you think okay I take
you know four calls and I close one and
I ask for referrals in all all four and
only one of them gives me a referral but
then that referral then closes then I
take my one sale out of four and turn it
to two out of five if you're a business
owner thinking about how valuable just
implementing that is consistently is
that your cost to acquire a customer you
just you cut in half by taking one
customer and getting a referral from
that customer and if one out of three
customers refer someone then you cut
your cost to Aire customer to buy a
third and this is the type of stuff is
advertising becomes more expensive
because it always will become more
expensive that the businesses that do
this the salesmen that do this will be
the ones that win in the future so now
we have a Salesman who has the maximum
number of hours the maximum number of
days they're pulling up appointments so
that their time on call closing with the
best people is maximized they're
following up before they're following up
after they're doing personalized reach
outs and saying like hey voice memo hey
video hey I've got this thing for you
that I've got set up for the call um
what size shirt do you want I've set
aside uh thing here was one of the
things we did at the gym hey what color
shirt do you want hey what boxing gloves
hey what you do a tiny little thing hey
I've got three gift cards I got one for
Amazon one for Starbucks and one for
whatever which one would you prefer
right you ask a preference question
prior to the call and more people show
because the thing is is you're like well
shoot this guy's doing this thing the
least I can do is show up and so they're
maximizing the number of scheduled
appointments they're maximizing the
number of shows they're maximizing the
number of opportunities they're getting
from those opportunities and now we get
to the call so now we got to close
it understand the value of preparation
you would be amazed at how much of a
genius you sound like if you just do
five minutes of research before a call
and so my rule of thumb for research is
that if it's something that you do all
the time it's about 10% of the time that
you're going to be on a call or meeting
that you can do in prep so if you have a
2-hour call then you've got 12 minutes
of prep if you've got a 60-minute call
then you do six minutes of prep now this
is something that if you do it all the
time if this is like I'm doing a
quarterly meeting then it reverses it's
like six hours of prep for one hour of
presentation if it's something that you
don't do often and so sales people do
the same call over and over again but
the thing that's different the tiny bit
of difference is the prospect they're
speaking with and so like this applies
to everything like if you're picking a
girl up at her house if you do 5 Seconds
of research in the car before you go in
and you look at what her dad does and
look at the company of the of the father
and say hey so Mr so and so really nice
to meet you so I see you work at you
know whatever engineering like do you
like that stuff I see that they just had
a a presses coming out do you have any
involvement in that this guy would
immediately see you no matter how you're
dressed what you look like is it's a
it's a check they're like whoa like I
will respect this person because he did
me the honor of actually taking some
time to look me up and figure out more
about my business he didn't show up like
everybody else does not knowing which
way is Sunday trying to figure things
out as they go I'm telling you the best
salespeople take those five minutes they
do that tiny bit of research and the
amount of Rapport that you build in that
first one minute from having those
Secrets the person is then like oh wow
they know about me think about what it
takes to close someone no like and Trust
well all of a sudden you feel known
because they did it you like people who
know more about you and what else do you
do you trust people who know more about
you because you approximate friendship
you approximate a relationship and you
do and you get to do a ton of that at
the first second of the call rather than
taking the five first minutes the call
to show that you don't know what you're
doing right as I started selling gym
owners rather than weight loss when I
was selling my turnaround business I
started getting leads but I didn't have
any like methodology so like I had a
webinar it didn't work and so I just
started finding people on Google using
their emails and so I'd find their
social profiles and I'd liter have to
piece together like a profile of who
this person was because the only thing I
was collecting was an email for this
webinar and so I'd find like three or
four social profiles and then I would
connect with them and I would do some
research so that I could make my reach
out not look sketchy as hell and so when
I would do my reach out that I would
have all this data that I put as almost
like a little profile together um about
them and so when I hopped on the phone
they were like whoa like you know a lot
about my gym and I was like well yeah
and I saw that because I look at the
images and be like so I saw your square
footage layout I think if you move this
here this might actually be able to
allow you to double the amount of usable
square footage that you have for the
sessions and that would help me sell
more people into your gym so I don't
know if you're open to something like
that but now I'm coming with like I see
the problem I also have the solution
because I thought about it before we got
on the phone because I don't want to
waste your time trying to figure fig
things out now I want to figure them out
beforehand come with you with Solutions
and this is when I starting out so I
didn't have a reputation yet so I had to
build the reputation by showing up and
providing more value than other people
were ahead of time and this is where
like if you're new and you're coming
into a space you win through prep like
the big guys had the reputation the
small guys went through
preparation the best sales people take
notes this is one of those things that
is just like prep but it preps you for
the next next call and so you do your
public preparation with what you can
find and observe you do your second call
preparation with what you find out on
the phone and I'm telling you if you hop
on the phone and say oh yeah so you've
got your daughter Sarah and Jessica and
they're at you know Colorado and they're
finishing up and you've got X Y and Z
happening in the business is that
correct okay cool just making sure just
reading over some of the past notes for
got on the call they're like oh wow I
don't have to resay my whole life story
again this guy now when this guy makes
recommendations I assume he doesn't
within the context of my business
because one of the big things when you
are selling something is that people
want to make sure that it not only that
it works but it's going to work for them
and so you can address that concern
before it ever comes up by proving that
your recommendations are contextual this
is also what switches you from being a
Salesman to a consultant this is what
switches you from somebody who's just
trying to close to somebody who's trying
to
help the most brilliant sales people
listen more than they talk and this is
when that people get wrong all the time
is that they see super talkative people
I mean moms in high school are like you
should get into sales because you don't
shut up uh no that's not not always the
case that's what that's what bad salesp
people look like uh and unfortunately
the thing is is the best salesp people
don't come off as salespeople they just
close and so people don't feel sold they
feel like they bought and so everybody
buys stuff every day all the time and
they're buying from companies that have
sales people people and they don't know
it so when you go to a restaurant and
they ask you if you want dessert that's
a sale they get commissions on those
things and if they do it in a weird way
you're like uh I don't want to be sold
but if they do it in a great way you're
like oh I'm so glad that person made
that recommendation and so you never
felt like you got sold you felt like you
bought and so the problem is that the
reputation of sales people is terrible
because you only remember the bad ones
we actually did this big study because
we have a huge amount of sales calls
that we can look at across the whole
portfolio and we use software that
analyzes the calls with AI and all that
stuff we can see what's talk time versus
listen time and the best salespeople
listen twice as much as they talk and so
the little isms that I have for this is
that the person who's answering the
questions is the one getting
interrogated you don't want to be the
one getting interrogated and whenever
you answer questions you give the other
person something to attack and so you
want them to be answering so that you
have things that you can pick apart and
move around if you're the one answering
questions then you're the one who's
getting picked apart and has things that
they can disagree with I want to be like
smoke right they can't they can't catch
any thing that I say and so if someone
says you know hey well tell me tell me
what makes you better than your
competition I'd be like well what things
you're looking
for right back to them right it's like
it's like hot potato it's like right
back to you well I would want this this
and this and this I'm like why are those
things important to you right back to
you right like I I can do this all day
right like I I cannot answer because the
thing is is that they believe nothing
that you say they believe everything
that they say and so I need them to say
that it's a good idea not me when I
started selling weight loss I realized
really quickly that I had an agenda of
what I wanted to tell people they needed
to do and I realized that I didn't have
time in 15 minutes to re-educate someone
their last 10 years of life of all the
experiences good and bad that they had
prior to me what I needed to do in that
moment was get them to buy and then I
could spend the rest of my time trying
to do the real education stuff and so I
wanted to Simply align with where they
were coming from to get them to make the
sale and
so that was why I started asking what
you done before what did you like what
did you not like rather than picking
apart the things they did and then then
like I actually really like that about
that other thing lost the sale only
takes a few times of doing that to be
like I'm going to shut the [__] up and
just let them tell me what they liked
and then I'll say we're like that and
not like that and so the whole concept
here is you want to educate the prospect
so that they can come to their own
conclusion and so the only gaps that
you're feeling is is hard information
and I only give that information after I
already know it's the right answer and
so just like lawyers don't ask questions
when they're on the stand that they
don't already know the answers to should
never ask for the sale unless you
already know they're going to buy and so
there are times and this is where
pattern recognition is helpful for
salespeople this is what the brilliant
salespeople do is that if they're like I
don't think he's ready there I don't
think he's ready yet and it's like you
don't you don't go for the kill you just
ask more questions like I feel some
hesitation like what are your main
concerns right now like I'm feeling some
hesitation around price talk to me about
that there's two ways by the way if
you're weirded out about asking
questions is is that you can both give
commands or ask questions and so you can
change the the Cadence up in the script
by saying so instead of saying for
example hey how's it going it's an easy
first thing a lot of people say on the
first thing of the call but if I say
tell me about your day it's a very
different thing because it it people
have automatic responses to questions
they hear all the time and so if you
want to break a pattern with somebody
and then get them more present you say
tell me about your
day and then like oh uh I mean it it was
good I had a couple calls before this
and you're like oh that's fantastic is
that related to this thing cuz I looked
looked you up online totally different
perspective on that salesperson in the
first 30 seconds right so they listen
more than they talk they are like smoke
you only answer questions with questions
unless you already know that the
statement that you're going to say is in
alignment with what you know the person
wants and so if they're like tell me why
you're different then I'd be like well
what have you done in the past because
then it'll give me more context so I can
help explain it now they're going to say
all these things they be like what did
you like about that what did you not
like about that and so when I get to the
point where I actually have to say what
what are things about I'm going to
highlight all the things they liked
about the other stuff and I'm going to
not highlight the things they didn't
like about the other stuff and all of a
sudden they' be like this is perfect i'
be like what do you know I just asked
you the question of the things you
wanted and as long as they are the
things that we can actually provide I
highlighted those features about our
thing because I already knew which piano
keys to play because you told
me they breathe the script and so the
reason I use that is because that is the
best description I can give is that they
can they can say it without thinking
just like you breathe without thinking
they can say the script without thinking
because you can't listen to a prospect
if you're waiting to talk because you're
trying to remember what you're going to
say next you need to know all of the
script like the Bible or like something
that you've memorized in the past so
that you can be 100% present with the
Prospect and listening and so my
favorite ISM around this is again and
the first time I learned this was I saw
an exceptional sales trainer training
rep and he was just drilling them on the
opening 30 seconds of the script and so
they did the script and I heard and I
and I was watching him listen to them
while giving them visual cues and so
this is this was a huge advancement in
terms of my understanding of selling
happened because before this I knew how
to sell but I couldn't transfer the
scill but this guy was sitting there and
he was like yep yep yep pause harder on
this word do it again nice do it again
nice one more time nice keep going and
so he would get them to drill it three
times in a row the right way after
making the correction and then he would
keep going in the script and so the
point was is that if you're a
salesperson you need to be able to do it
again and again and again because the
word concision matters a lot you don't
want to be one of these salese that
takes a hundred words to say something
you could say in five it'll also make
your sales way longer so again the best
salesperson can take more calls because
they shorten the call required a
mediocre salesperson will do the script
in the beginning and it'll close and
they will have coughed right before they
asked for the close and then the person
closes and so they get reinforcement for
coughing and so the next sales call they
take they add a cough in and whether
that person closes or not they're like
well it worked on that other one and so
all of a sudden they add coughing in
right before they close now the next
time on the time that they close let's
say on their fourth call after this they
also added a second question in before
the close so they add the second
question in and then you see where this
happens is that they cough and add a
second question to every single call
that they do and by doing this over time
the length of the script and the length
of the things that salespeople do
continues to expand because they get
positive reinforcement but the reality
is that that person might have just been
willing to buy no matter what and so the
script gets longer and longer even
though it might not have nothing to do
with what was required to close and so
you want to be as concise as assumably
possible and this is what the best sales
people do in order to close the most
sales per day per unit of time because
the less time you're on the phone after
you make the sale the more time you have
to fill your calendar back up and close
more deals and so the three tactics this
is the sales managers is that you
rehearse the script every morning they
do role plays meaning let's pretend like
I'm a prospect like you got to you got
to get over whatever your weirdness is
with role playing like I don't know what
it is but so many managers like don't
want to role play like Get over yourself
you have to role play in order for them
to get good and when you do the role
playing you work on one specific part of
the script because if if you're doing it
every morning you're going to be able to
work through things pretty quickly but
you're like today we're just going to
focus on the intro today we're just
going to focus on the close today I just
want you to focus on how we're
overcoming spouse overcomes I want you
to overcome I have to think about it
issues I want you to give me two or
three bangs in a row to overcome that
obstacle because you seem to be
struggling with it right and so by and
you just keep hitting it again and again
and again so that when it comes up they
just breathe it out rather than thinking
about it also because no one can improve
multiple things at the same time so when
you say hey there's nine things you did
wrong one it's incredibly discouraging
second they can't improve any of them
and so if you look at any good skills
coach whether it's a basketball coach or
it's a painting coach or a sales coach
they work they might see you have a
hundred things wrong with your game
they're just going to focus on one at a
time until they clean them all up and
then all of a sudden you become an
exceptional salesperson so I said I had
nine but I have way more than nine so
enjoy so here's number
10 they kill zombies up front now that's
the term that we use internally you can
say diffuse the bomb which is one that I
did earlier in my career is what I used
to say um but I'm Middle Eastern so you
know we had to change that the formal
definition that I use is you've got
obstacles and you've got objections an
obstacle occurs before you've mentioned
the price and so if someone says for
example um you know I have a special
snowflake thyroid issue right and you're
trying to say like you need to do this
thing to lose weight you know that
that's going to blow up on you in the
sale see we're doing bomb references so
you have to address it up front and it's
much easier to address things before you
ask for money than after if you do it
after it's called an objection all right
so I say obstacles are up front you want
to avoid them you want to move around
them right right I mean you have to
crush through them realistically but you
get through those and then objections
you have to handle but now the the time
is ticking on the bomb like now you have
a short period of time before it blows
up on you right uh or the zombie is
about to bite you whatever analogy you
want spouse for example or decision
maker or I'm not going to have time to
do this thing or there's elements of
this you know program or implementation
that aren't a fit for me you want to
address all that stuff up front so that
you've handled everything before the
stakes get lifted When you mention price
and then you go for the close and the
obstacles and objections that you handle
are always the same and so they're going
to Bubble up to three main things one is
going to be circumstances so
circumstances is going to be time it's
going to be money it's going to be
things about this specific program or
implementation those are all
circumstance those are outside the next
is going to be other people it's going
to be my wife my employees my kid my
some my business partner somebody else
has decision-making Authority and the
third is going to be myself somebody who
themselves doubts that they can do it or
that they will be successful or that
it's the way they want it to be done the
good news is that most of the time when
you're diffusing these bombs they start
with the outside because time money fit
is what I like to call it are things
that are really easy to cast blame to
and it's and it's almost a it's a it's a
response right it's like they don't have
to think about like I don't have time I
don't have the money I don't have I
don't have the card I want like I don't
have the you know whatever if they talk
about an authority figure then it means
that like I would do it but this
person's in the way and so now you're
one step closer to the decision maker
once you handle that if you have
somebody who says I need to think about
it that's actually great because it
means you're already two layers of the
onion deeper to just like you're talking
to somebody who's in power who can make
the decision great now you just have to
help help them make the decision and so
you should know all of the key
fundamentals of how to overcome these
now you can memorize each of them which
I highly recommend but I think it's also
good to understand the fundamentals and
so this is what the best salespeople do
is that they have key stories or
metaphors to break the belief that the
person has around that obstacle so for
example if someone says hey um I can't
decide today because you know my husband
and I make all of our decisions together
right now this depends on the nature of
your sale if you're in a transactional
sale and I would say like a consumer
based sale that's under a th000 bucks
maybe 2,000 bucks usually you have to do
that right there if you have like a B2B
sale that's going to be a multi you know
multi call sale then you might have to
bring in stakeholders and so this is one
of the nuances that depends on the thing
you're selling in the price point but
the way that the best sales people do
this is that you play out something in
the past and you play it out in the
future okay so with a decision maker
you'd say hey so let me tell you about
this girl Susan she was just like you
and um she actually had the same issue
come up where she was like I don't do
anything without the consent on my
husband and you know what happened she
walked out her husband said I don't want
you to spend the money I actually saw
her a few years later and when I talked
to her I said hey so how's how's things
going with the you know the fitness
stuff she was like oh they're they're
not and I was like oh why she was like
well my husband never lets me do
anything and I was like oh geez um
that's got to be kind of rough and she
was like yeah it sucks and so the thing
is is that if you play it out into the
future like you're going to end up
resenting that person because they're
not letting you do what you want and so
I think what you're asking for is
permission when you really need support
that's how you how you like you go from
past to the future right and so then you
can play it out with this person so so
let's play it out five years so over the
last five years you've gained 5 pounds a
year so you're 25 pounds heavier so five
years from now if you're 25 pounds
heavier than you are right now they're
like oh my God if I'm 25 pounds heavier
than I am like but that's just the track
you're on and so let's play it out it
like what if they say
no and so sometimes they're like well
then I would do it anyways then you're
like awesome let's sign you up now one
out of three times that's actually what
happened which is crazy I still am blown
away by that but then the two out of
three times then I go you want
permission not support now if you're
looking at time or money for example
then you say hey we need uh we need
resourcefulness not resources so it's
like you have your little isms that you
can remember if it's time then it's well
is it a seasonal thing because if it's a
seasonal thing means you're busy right
now uh and you might be you know less
busy later that assumes that you'll
never be busy again and so do you want
this thing to be long lasting this
implementation or do you want it to be
just like only for the time that you're
not busy and then you'll fall off again
when when you get busy well shoot I want
it to last forever ever it's like okay
well then you should probably start when
you're busy because that's when I'm
going to be giving you the most support
is now so that when you get to the the
free time it'll be easy coasting and
when you get busy again you know how to
stick with it because you had the
support right and so again it's like you
have to be able to dismantle these
things because you understand all of
these there's a fundamental underlying
fallacy of giving away power to
something else because people don't want
to make mistakes they don't want to fail
and so they come up with all of these
excuses they come up with time they say
like that's the seasonal thing you can
have time and in terms of the micro
which is I don't have time in my day I'm
like well you're here so when were you
imagining this is why you do this up
front when were you imagining how much
time can you dedicate to this
implementation to this SEO agency to
this weight loss program whatever it is
right if you ask that up front then if
they say oh I don't have time with it
then you can say well what changed
between then and now just so I have
understanding did I ask the question in
a weird way that made you like not
understand it um and again this is where
tone matters a lot because now you're in
the red zone right now it's like like
the bomb's way more sensitive cu the the
the the time ticker is going and so we
want to be extra this is where Rapport
is so important in the beginning because
I I'll add this in this is a bonus one I
call it the ghetto tone okay and I
learned this from Sam back yart so he
had a personal training business and
that's why I I I shadowed underneath
when I got into fitness he let me just
work for him for minimum wage uh and so
I learned how the gym business worked
but anyways I saw him have this you know
rich white lady doesn't put her weights
back right and he was still training at
the time like he was training sessions a
little bit um and so he was like girl
he's like I know you ain't about to
leave my gym without putting your
weights back and he's a Persian dude
right but he would get into this kind of
like ghetto like whatever you want to
call it way of talking and she'd be like
ah fine I'll go put him back and I
thought about that and I was like man if
I had just been like hey Susan can you
put your weights
back like she's like I pay for personal
training you can put my weights back
like that could get really bad really
fast but when you say it like that all
of a sudden it's like I'm communicating
the same thing and I get the desired
result and they think it's fun and
light-hearted and so in the same sense
when you're in the clothes I use a ton
of humor and that tonality to
diffuse hard conversations so I say like
girl I was like five minutes ago I was
like you had four hours a week I was
like what happened to my four hours if I
say that no one's going be upset with me
they' be like ah well I mean I didn't
know that it was going to be X Y and Z
and then I'll be
like fine I know like and then then then
tone switch and you're like what's
really going
on and then you get the real stuff
because guess
what closers ask hard questions right
and they're the questions it's the place
where you don't want to go versus where
you need to go which is you want them to
diffuse the bomb in front of you not
when they get home right and so you
don't want them to sit with the decision
you want them to confront it's like you
might be wondering this is a lot of
money let's talk about it right you
might be wondering if your husband's
going to be against it well let's talk
about some reasons that he might not be
against it let's talk about uh what your
business partner will say if you buy
this without their permission let's talk
about that right and so you want to
confront those ugly things you don't
want to because like you're not like if
I if you take anything from this the
best salespeople want to confront it
because they're better at selling them
than they are at selling themselves so
you want them to confront the obstacle
in front of you so that you can help
them through it so don't wait for like
you're not going to avoid it I promise
you you think you're avoiding the land
mine but like because sometimes you hear
that thing in the beginning of the call
and you're like that's a bit I don't
know if I want to blow the CL dude it's
going to blow up in the clothes if you
can't even can't even confront it before
you've mentioned price it's definitely
coming up after you mention price so
like confront it now so one of my
favorite ways to get to the hard
question is asking what are you afraid
of
happening and then I follow that with
let's just play it out a lot of times
it's like people don't even want to look
at what's going to happen it's like no
let's play it out right like I remember
I had this this sale that happened where
I had a lady who was like I follow Dave
Ramsey and I have envelopes of cash and
if I give you this envelope that's my
grocery money for the week uh if I do
this program and I was like okay well
what are you afraid of and she like
paused and I was like is it that you
won't be able to afford food I was like
would you be afraid of that and she was
like well yeah cuz she thought she was
going to win the sale day but it was a
trap um and I was like but you're trying
to lose weight I was like worst case
scenario don't afford food you lose some
weight I was like win win now I did that
with a good tone so she got a laugh out
of it right and I was like but let's be
real I was like have you ever bought
anything in the past that you weren't
sure you could afford I was like and
where are you now you still survived
you're not on the couch right I was like
we always make it work in the end right
if and you have to cut somewhere else I
was like this is something that's going
to last with you forever like you have
all these clothes I was like you want to
make all of them look better in 6 weeks
I was like just lose 20 lbs what are you
afraid of let's play it out best case
worst case when you do that you can
basically take away the emotion from the
decision and say okay worst case
scenario you're on your friend's couch
and you know what you were poor before
this and you were happy then too so
worst case scenario is you're in the
same position you've been in before and
it was fine best case scenario you
changed your life
forever so does that feel like a bet
you're willing to
take right and so if you if you just you
want to confront it and then walk into
what they're afraid of and just say
let's play out so this happens here this
happens here best case worst case and I
can tell you like I've probably closed
more sales on best case worst case than
any other clothes I
have ask for the sale again and so this
is a big one if you do not ask for the
sale you will not get it that is a
promise once you ask if you ask again
you'll increase the likelihood that they
buy now there's a right way to do this
and a wrong way to do this if you just
ask again when someone says no bad Lu if
someone says no and you ask why and then
you you resolve the why then you ask
again and that makes sense it says hey I
can't make Tuesdays and you say no
worries if we're able to do it on
Thursday would that work for you and
they say yes they say awesome so you
want to move forward you ask again right
so all you're doing is resolving the
concern there's terms in the industry
called looping or you know uh obstacle
overcomes whatever whatever wording you
want to use is that you resolve the
concern and you ask again and you can do
this literally unlimited times as long
as you resolve the concern and then you
ask again I mean let will tell you that
like if it was either a Sunday sale cuz
I usually had way less calls on Sundays
um or it was the last appointment of the
day for me she just knew that I would
always close that sale because I would
just have unlimited time because I was
like I will just keep going and so I ask
again and again and again and I had um I
had a partner back in the day I don't
know if I like the visual but he's like
he's like you're like a Pit Bull on
someone's ankle he's like you just will
not [__] let them leave and I was
like it's cuz I think I think that they
need it they came in cuz they're trying
to lose weight we sell weight loss
what's the problem like we just have to
figure it out and usually it's just like
it's mounds of stuff you have to UNP of
all these excuses of all the times that
they've been unsuccessful in their lives
it's like they came in because they want
to solve the problem and when then they
can confronted with the decision they
get freaked out again because they reli
these past traumas of the things they've
tried and then feeling like a failure
and then they associate that failure
with you in the moment you're like hey
Susan Cal down we're just going to have
you eat some [__] chicken and walk a
little bit it's going to be okay and so
the best closers come from the frame of
helping the Prospect and so I will tell
you this right now the best salespeople
care more about the prospect than they
do so whoever cares the most about the
prospect wins the sale and so if they
care more about themselves then they
will win now you're like well of course
they're going to care more about
themselves ah if you have more context
than they do which you should because
you know more about the product than
they do you should be able to have the
best perspective to say no I'm not going
to let this guy's limiting beliefs get
in the way because I really want to help
him or really want to help her and I can
see that today it feels safe to retreat
back to not taking action on this huge
pain that they have but I can see how
this is going to play out because I've
seen a hundred other people just like
them walk out the door and I see them
you know a year later and they're in the
exact same position or worse and I don't
want that for them and so if you keep
the human at the Forefront of your mind
when you're making the sale you'll never
come across pushy because you they can
hear the intention they can hear the
tonality in your voice about you
actually just trying to help them so
when you ask for the sale again having
key stories and metaphors that you can
use to break beliefs is what allows you
to then ask again and you can do that
literally unlimited times as long as
they have time and you have time and you
address the problem now if you don't
address the problem and ask in they'll
get annoyed so you just want to make
sure that you have an answer and you
should have an answer because you've had
this conversation before there's nothing
they should be able to tell you that
should surprise you if we zoom out we
have a salesperson who has maximum hours
maximum days they have as many time
slots per day filled up with the best
best prospects because they work them
well they have a plan before and after
to come prepared to the call and take
notes and follow up with them bam famam
the whole thing and when they're on the
call they're completely present they
breathe the script they know how to
handle obstacles they have they have
analogies and stories and metaphors
memorized so they can help people
overcome their issues they stick to the
script they don't add to the script they
keep their word concision as tight as
humanly possible so they can maximize
the number of sales they have per day
and maximize the conversion rate of
those sales fundamentally sales by the
way I should have defined this earlier
is increaseing the likel that the
prospect buys that's all it is so
everything that has to do with sales
like if you had the perfect sales
process it means you would account for
every single variable that could ever
happen to any human and you would get
100% of people who go through this
process to buy that's what a perfect
sales process would be and so it's a
percentage conversion that's all it is
and so with that we have maximum
opportunities maximum percentage
conversion we have an amazing sales are
up but what if they can only do it for a
day that gets into the third bucket
which is what I would consider meta
skills which is
of the best sales
people the things that most sales people
struggle with are trait issues meaning
they are on and then they're off again
they're on and they're off again they
get motivated they get demotivated
motivated demotivated if you feel like
this then it's a skilled deficiency you
just don't know how to sustain
performance for a long period of time
and I promise you the difference between
Champions and everyone else that they
can sustain performance it's not like I
don't know if sales is for me um I don't
know if I'm growing enough in my dude
here's the cleared efficiency you can't
stay consistent there's some growth that
you can tackle right now being
consistent another kind of meta skill
around this is enthusiasm like they're
enthusiastic one week they're not
enthusiastic the next week being able to
sustain and maintain a high level of
enthusiasm for both the role and when
you're on the call is a skill it's a
skill you whistle while you work you got
to learn how to do it you got to learn
to like the stuff you don't love so you
can do the thing you really love which
is
sales the best salespeople kill for
sport so let me tell you this a little
analogy h notice a little analogies so I
heard this from uh Mike Ary and I just
love this he said there's three types of
sales people there's dogs horses and
tigers he's like dogs you got to feed
them and if you don't feed them they
starve to death and you got to you got
to give them all this attention you got
to rub their belly every day and the
moment you stop they die horses they
will Gallop as long as you keep whipping
them but the moment you stop Galloping
they just go down to a trot he's like
but Tigers he said a tiger can eat a
full meal but then if a bunny walks
across his line of vision we'll kill the
bunny for sport he's like you want
tigers
and I love that little analogy because
the best sales people that I've ever met
in my life they love sales they love the
thrill of the clothes of the hunt when I
was selling weight loss I would
sometimes have homeless people and
things like that that would come in who
would respond to my ads it would happen
right I had two ways to take it I could
try and not take it seriously try and
just like basically just get through the
sale so I could move on with my life or
I could see it is free practice and
what's crazy is the amount of times
where I judge someone as poor and turned
out that they just dress different I
don't know anything about
that was more times than I can count and
a lot of them were like hey I appreciate
you just like you know treated me well I
was like of course I was like this is a
business your money spends the same and
so you either practice the skill or you
close either way you win it's a lot like
lifting weights where if you have your
warm-up reps and they look different
than your heavy reps you're actually not
practicing at all so you're wasting all
these opportunities that you could be
practicing your skill sharpening the
sword which is what we call it in the
sales world you could be sharpening your
sword but you're actually making it
duller because you're practicing the
wrong way you're learning bad habits by
not taking the sale seriously so the
best sales people kill for sport and so
I had uh I'll tell you a Jacob story
which is my my young my young you know
started with me at like 15 now he's been
with me however many years seven he
started as a low man on the totem pole
and so when we would have lesser
qualified leads they handed all of them
to Jacob he's like I'll be the garbage
man he's like I'll take anybody's leads
he's like I just want to get good I just
want to practice and so he's trying to
take as many reps as he possibly could
and guess what happened he started
taking more reps than everyone else did
and guess what happened after that he
got better than other people did because
he took more reps and he took every one
of these as a [__] gift which is what
it is is that someone's going to give
you the time to learn the skill of sales
the business paid for that lead maybe
it's less qualified they paid for it
just the same and you have the benefit
of learning the amount of people who
want to learn how to sell better and are
unwilling to take quote unqualified
leads is ridiculous UL to me it's free
practice with stakes and you still have
the possibility of winning and closing a
deal track data the best salespeople
track data and so they're meticulous
about the data they track and so let me
explain this so you can judge and I've
just seen this across my portfolio the
skill of any person in any Endeavor that
they practice by the quantity and
quality of the metrics they track and so
if someone says oh I'm good at sales i'
be like cool tell me about the metrics
you track now if they're like ah just
you know close rate it's like well
there's so many other metrics that you
could track to understand how good you
are at sales because the close rate is
really just an outcome it gives you no
leading indicators it tells you nothing
else right I want to know what
percentage of leads you're booking I
want to know what percentage of of
scheduled things are showing I want to
know of show rate what percentage are
you offering of offer how many of you're
closing how many how many what's your
average call to close are you doing one
call two call 1.2 like what's your
what's your average number what's your
average number of cash collected like
there's so many other metrics that you
can track to know how well you're doing
as a salesperson and yes for everybody
like shout this from the rooftops if you
can get their schedule rate up by 20%
it's just as good as getting their Clos
rate up by 20% and so there's so many
other things in the funnel that the best
sales people know about closing about
how to increase the total number of
sales they get by controlling all of the
other variables that are under their
control now the bad guys the dogs are
like I only want these times and I want
them to be spoonfed to me and and if I
don't get them fed there and you don't
pat me on the head I'm going to starve
to death and die right that's what the
dogs do and if you've got salesp people
like that they're dogs I don't care how
many how much experience they have
they're dogs right tigers are like I
want to be available to kill whenever
because I just love the hunt I would do
this for free I'm just happy I get paid
to do it pro tip if you are somebody
who's running a sales team if you want
to increase the close rates across the
entire team even more give the best
closers the best leads and the way you
do that is that you have to start by
scoring your leads first which means you
actually have to track data so you can
say these people have the highest
likelihood of closing when they have
these three characteristics they close
their way higher percentage and then you
give those leads to the best guys so
fundamentally you'd want the worst leads
to go to the worst guy the best leads to
go to the best guy and everyone in
between and so by doing that you
actually match the org and so I actually
had a Salesman that I knew who was the
top sales rep for a time share business
and it's exactly what you think it is so
it's a billion dollar plus company this
guy was making three million a year in
commission selling time shares and I had
dinner with him and I was like what do
you do you know differently and he said
well I won the sales competition and so
I got one hour with the CEO and on that
one hour with the CEO which is the prize
for winning the sales competition it was
3,000 sales people it was number one he
said I just said if you give me the best
leads instead of wasting them on these
guys who are new he's like I will make
you so much money and so the guy
experimented with his little Division
and he 5x his income as the sales guy
and then they took it and they rolled it
out Nationwide and they 5x the business
and so there's a huge opportunity in
every business to give the best closers
the best leads because you make more
money and what happens is is that the
best guys will actually make more and
more and more money which then creates a
survivorship bias for new guys coming in
and so if you know the best guy used to
make 200,000 a year as the top closer
but now can make 800,000 a year the
amount of sales people that you will
attract your opportunity will 10x now
even though the entry level guys now
make less than they did before the
opportunity just like the lottery the
same reason people buy tickets is they
assume that they're going to get there
and so by having it this way you'll have
people come in willing to make less
because they know that if they if they
perform well they'll go to the big
leagues now the other benefit of this is
that you train your new guys on the
worst leads so you lose the least money
as a business but they also develop
their skills because they've got to
learn how to Big borrowed steel and
squeeze blood from the stones from the
least qualified customers and so when
they get to somebody who's got a 700
credit score and actually has intent to
buy they're like oh my God this is
amazing because they practiced on
somebody who's like missing an arm and
missing seven credit cards and they are
in bankruptcy and they're actually in
the middle of a divorce and the real
name isn't Al it's actually Larry and
you know it's complicated I'm a little
liquid right now I'm between thing you
know whatever right and they're closing
those people for lunch money uh and so
when you learn how to do that when you
get to like qualified prospects you're
like oh my God this amazing but at that
point the business doesn't bear the cost
the salesperson does so that they can
develop their skills because just being
real you're still paying them to learn
and I'd rather pay as little as I can so
I can allocate the resources the best
way possible in the
business my biggest pet peeve and the
reverse of that is my favorite thing
about the best salespeople is they never
blame circumstances so whenever I have a
salesperson who's like the leads are bad
or you know uh these These people aren't
a good or BL just like whatever BS that
they can come up with or like I don't
like the commission structure we should
change like just focus on the things you
can control right and the guys that I
love the most never complain they pick
up the extra shifts they call the leads
the most they work them the most they're
like these leads are amazing I'm so
grateful to have these and be able to
practice and get paid to do it and
there's a time and a place for giving
feedback on stuff group calls not one of
them if you are one of these sales
people you give it one-onone with the
manager say hey by the way I've noticed
like some people get on the phone just
objectively like their credit scores are
just consistently lower than they were a
couple months ago I don't know if we've
changed anything on the marketing side
I'm going to approach the leads the same
I love The Practice just thought might
be you know useful data for marketing
right that's very different than like
dude these leads are [__] I'm I'm not
taking these calls right that's just a
primadonna and I hate that and so again
the worse the leads the better you get
to flex your skill and the best sales
people take 100% of the control and the
best marketers take 100% % of the
control too and so if everybody is
taking absolute blame for every outcome
guess what you
win if you want a tactical breakdown of
scaling a sales team from Z to 40 we
actually did that in one of our
portfolio companies in just over a
quarter we added $21 million in profit
to the business our largest portfolio
company and so if you want every one of
those steps outlined in black and white
on the Whiteboard I break it down enjoy
the case study